
# Environmental Awareness Project

A web application for creating environmental awareness among people.



## Problems Addressed:

- Creating environmental awareness among people. People generally do not worry about their carbon footprint and the amount of impact their daily activities cause on the environment.
- People who want to switch to the usage of sustainable products and methods are not aware of the alternatives and organisations that are creating usable eco-friendly solutions and products.
- Various startups rely upon specific types of waste generated by common people. Many people want to contribute to the production of these products but do not have a medium. The quantity and quality of waste are further degraded due to the various mediums through which the waste reaches its destination.


## Features: 
The site will have two portals:
 
 **1.) Individual Users**
- Incorporating carbon footprint calculators to see how actions in everyday life can affect climate change. Users will get timely notification to update their carbon score.
- Giving users the ability to monitor their carbon footprint progress. Questionnaires to determine a user’s personal and unique carbon score to understand how much CO2 they are producing.
- A social media sharing option can allow users to post their carbon scores.
- People can participate in/ host Monthly/ Weekly go green challenges and see who can go most sustainable. They can also win awards and badges.
**2.) Eco-friendly startups**
- An interface where people/organisations can buy raw materials or products directly from the startups.
- People can donate/sell the waste products directly to eco-friendly startups utilizing those specific materials.
- Featured profiles of startups on the basis of ratings of products and impact.

## Objectives:
- This app aims at creating environmental awareness among people. The app will educate people on the steps they can take to reduce their carbon footprint and will help to bring together environment-conscious people where they can start a discussion.
- The app will acquaint users with information about various eco friendly alternatives  they can use and will act as an easy medium to access those alternatives.
- It will be easier for startups to access the materials required easily and will help them scale up their business at a faster rate. 
- A substantial amount of usable waste will not be lost because the waste will be already segregated.
- People will get to know about various incentives that are being taken up by those companies and this will advertise environmentally sustainable products and will bring off the objective of the app.
- Will introduce a sense of support and appreciation to those working to reduce the impact of human usage on the environment.

## Target audiance: 
All

## Project constraints:
- Requires basic knowledge of environmental issues and carbon footprint.
- Requires the will and efforts of the users.





## Tech Stack:

**Client && Server**: Next.JS

**Database**: MongoDB

**Future needs**: Cloud to deploy the website.



## Setting up the project:

After cloning the project:

Install the packages:
```bash
  npm install
```
Start the server:
```bash
  npm run dev
```
Open http://localhost:3000 with your browser to see the app running.


## Documentation:

[Next.js](https://nextjs.org/docs)

[NextAuth.js](https://next-auth.js.org/getting-started/introduction)

[Next.js Github repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/)


